# coverovert

A covert channel is a method of communication that is used to transmit information in a stealthy way. It utilizes unintended use of protocols. There are two types of covert channels which are covert storage channels and covert timing channels. Covert storage channels involve writing and reading data to and from a shared resources such as some bits in some fields while covert timing channels involve manipulating the timing of events to convey information.

This covert channel implements a storage channel. It utilizes protocol field manipulation by exploiting the SSAP field in the LLC layer. The purpose of the SSAP field is to identify the network layer protocol that generated the frame, but in this covert channel implementation, it is manipulated to encode and transmit hidden messages.

As the purpose of the covert channels is to convey information in a stealth way, the information must be encoded by the sender and decoded by the receiver. This covert channel encodes the message in the following way. There are 4 parameters which are parameter1, parameter2, parameter3, and parameter 4. parameter1 takes a value between 0 and 255. parameter2 takes a value between 0 and 15. parameter3 and parameter4 take "up" or "down". First, the covert channel starts encoding by XORing each byte in the message with parameter1. Then for each pair of two consecutive bits in the message, it generates random numbers between 0 and (parameter2-1) or between parameter2 and 15 depending on parameter3 and parameter 4. For the significant in the pair, it generates a random number between 0 and (parameter2-1) if parameter3 is "up" and the significant bit in the pair is 0. Otherwise, it generates between parameter2 and 15, and vice-versa in case parameter3 is "down". For the insignificant bit in the pair, it generates a random number between 0 and (parameter2-1) if parameter4 is "up" and the insignificant bit in the pair is 0. Otherwise, it generates between parameter2 and 15, and vice-versa in case parameter4 is "down". The sender decodes by reversing this process.

Covert Channel Capacity: 83 bytes/second